---
title: Major minor annoyances
date: 2012-05-18
---

Some people have issues with the fancy new appearance of the Google
products that's been rolled out over past 6 months or so. I don't
actually, but in the process it seems Google have also been shaping the
profile of their products and services.\
 \
 One manifestation of this is in the drop-down box under "More" when you
run a search. One option under that menu I used to use extensively was
Google Scholar, which would take the search term you just used and use
it to search Google Scholar. Now, you click on "More", go down to the
bottom of the long list of options to select "Even More", and then get
taken to a web page which has Google Scholar there somewhere, just keep
looking. Click on Scholar, and oh, by the way, you've lost your original
search term.\
 \
 This might be a symptom of the larger number of services that Google
offers, but seems crazy for two reasons:\
 \
 a) Some of the options in the menu bar or the "more" menu itself show
up in the side bar after you've run a search anyway; redundant! Why not
put Google Scholar over on the left there buddy?\
 b) It's not clear why there isn't space for Scholar, but there is for
options like "Finance" and "Books".\
 \
 I find it hard to believe, but maybe this shows that academic users are
in the minority.
[Some](http://www.roughtype.com/archives/2012/03/bring_back_goog.php)
have implied that this is all about commercialisation, and
[others](http://www.searchengineshowdown.com/blog/2012/02/google_bar_goes_back_to_top_.shtml)
wondering whether this is the end for Scholar altogether (I doubt it,
given Google seems to have some [interest in research and academic
collaboration](http://research.google.com/)).\
 \
 Anyway, a solution is to forego Google altogether. I've been
using [DuckDuckGo](https://duckduckgo.com/) as a search engine, and it's
pretty neat. The results it returns are nice and clean, it's [attitude
to privacy](https://duckduckgo.com/privacy.html) is refreshing (it
allows users some), and most importantly it allows specifying particular
web sites to search using a bang (!) character. So Google Scholar is
!gsc and can be entered on the fly, and once used is easily accessible
in a drop down box for future searches.\
 \
 Long-term, the question is what happens with offerings like Google
Scholar, and whether alternatives like [Microsoft Academic
Search](http://academic.research.microsoft.com/) become more appealing.
